So now that we've had a chance to understand the purpose
and features within Elastic Beanstalk,
we're now going to launch a sample application on the platform.
So here in this demo,
we are first going to be accessing the sample Elastic Beanstalk
applications from the Elastic Beanstalk documentation.
We will then be launching one of those sample applications on Elastic Beanstalk.
And then finally, we will be deleting a deployed Elastic Beanstalk application.
So I'm here on the Tutorials and samples page within
the Elastic Beanstalk documentation.
Now a link to this page will be provided within the
guided outlined for this course.
And I'm going to scroll down to the bottom half of the page where we
actually have sample applications that have been included.
Now I'm going to click on this Node.js application to download it.
Now in this case, this is going to be the sample application that I choose.
If you wanted to try out one of the others, you certainly could as well.
But when we go to launch it within Elastic Beanstalk,
you'll need to be sure that you select the correct platform.
So now I'm going to navigate over to the AWS console, and
I'm already logged into the console.
And from here,
I'm going to either click on Elastic Beanstalk within Recently visited services,
or if you don't have it within Recently visited services,
you can simply type in Elastic and then search for Elastic Beanstalk.
Now from here,
it's going to tell us Welcome to Elastic Beanstalk, and we're
going to click on the Get started button.
Next, we're going to create a web application,
and I'm going to call this one sample‑app. And then from here,
we're going to go down and choose the platform. Now because I chose
Node.js, this is the platform that I'm going to select here.
Now,
we do have the option here to just do a sample application
without having to leave the Elastic Beanstalk dashboard
here in the console; however,
I'm going to choose to go to the Upload your code option.
Part of the reason I'm doing this is because I want you to have
experience uploading your own code into Elastic Beanstalk.
I'm now going to hit Upload,
and I'm going to select the local file. And here I'm going
to go in and select the Node.js sample application, and
then I'm going to hit Upload.
Now from here,
we'll get a chance to go in and configure more options. Now at a high level,
we don't need to change any of the settings that are included here; however,
I wanted to show this to you so that you can see some of the
different capabilities that you can configure within Elastic
Beanstalk. Now at this point,
we'll choose to leave all of these values in place, but you
can see there's quite a bit of configuration that is available
to you. We'll now hit Create app.
And now we can see that Elastic Beanstalk is going through the process of
guiding our initial deployment and we're able to use this console here to view
the progress as it deploys it out for the first time.
And we can now see that our application has launched successfully.
It's currently letting us know that the health of this application is okay.
And if we look,
there is a URL that we can click on to get access to our web
application. And if we go look at this,
we can see that we have indeed launched our first web application
here on Elastic Beanstalk. And it actually allows you to kind of
scroll through and look at the different documentation based on
the links that are included.
Now if we go back and look at the dashboard, as a reminder there are several
different things that are included within the platform,
including keeping things like our logs, so we can see our logs, we
actually can go in and request those at any point in time, we can look
at the health, it'll go through and let us know the instances that are
running and the percentage of requests, we can see here that we have
had some good 200 requests, which is what we would want.
We can go in and see monitoring so we can actually see
how our web application is performing.
Now, this has just started up,
so we're not going to have any good data to look at at the moment.
We can even go in and configure alarms based on,
for example, if our application becomes unhealthy if it's not responding.
So these are all the things that are provided by Elastic Beanstalk
just as a part of the platform as a whole, and it doesn't require you
to know how to go in and configure all of the backing services that
are feeding into Elastic Beanstalk.
But now we're going to take our last step,
and that's we're going to delete our application.
So I'm going to go here under this application, so I'm going to go
here under Actions and I'm going to choose to Terminate
environment. And here to terminate it, we're going to need to
enter in the name of our application, and then we're going to hit Terminate,
and this will destroy the web application that we've just deployed,
which is what we want.
So now, through this process,
we have been able to take a sample application provided by
Elastic Beanstalk, launch it within the platform,
see it running,
see some of the capabilities that are provided by Elastic Beanstalk, and then ultimately terminating our custom application.